documentation.txt

Renzo F Lucioni
Anuv Ratan

HarvardTour
iOS App



The HarvardTour app is meant to be easy to use. First, if you don't 
already have the source, pull the code from GitHub 
(https://github.com/lucesco/HarvardTour). Build and run the source in Xcode. (If 
the code refuses to compile, remove the app icons from the build settings. This 
has been a source of problems on the past.) For best performance, run the app on
an iPhone, not in the simulator. (If the app quits after running for a few 
minutes on your phone, request a device-specific key from 3DAR at 
http://3dar.us/request/ and paste it into SM3DAR_keys.txt, overwriting any text 
already there.) There is no configuration necessary apart from making sure the 
iPhone's Location Services are on.

Using the app is simple. For a 2D map view of Harvard Yard, start the app and lay 
the phone on a flat surface such as a table or the palm of your hand. Scroll and
zoom the map with your fingers, as you normally would with a map on iOS. Tap on 
one of the purple pins to get a callout with the name of the building the pin is
marking. If you want to know more about that building, tap the blue button with
the white arrow to get an additional details pop-up. When you are done, tap 
"Okay" to return to the 2D map view. Your location will appear as a blue dot on 
the 2D map.

For an augmented reality (AR) view of these map annotations, simply hold the 
phone up vertically with the screen facing you. Move about as usual (walk, run,
skip, spin - whatever your preferred method of ambulation might be) and watch 
the screen to see what buildings in the Yard you are facing and how far away you
are from them. To see this information for a marker, you must first "focus" on a
marker. To focus on a specific marker, target it by moving your phone (or 
yourself) such that the marker turns red. Typically, this will involve moving 
the phone such that the marker is near the center of the screen.

You can switch smoothly between the 2D map view and the 3D AR view at any time 
by holding the phone up vertically (for AR) or laying it down flat (for the 
map). It is also possible to tap a pin in the 2D map view, then the blue button 
with the white arrow to bring up additional details, and then hold the phone up 
to see the additional details pop-up overlayed on camera output. Know that 
tapping the 3DAR icon in the lower right-hand corner while in AR view will 
change the "camera altitude," or your viewpoint elevation. There are three 
camera altitudes available: 4 m, 50 m, and 350 m above the ground. Tapping the 
3DAR icon repeatedly will cycle through these altitudes. Selecting 350 m above 
the ground will give you something resembling an eagle's eye view of the 
markers. None of these camera altitudes affect actual camera output though, so 
selecting 50 m or 350 m will move the AR markers out of place. Finally, know 
that in the event of compass interference, you should wave the phone in a figure
eight motion, as instructed on-screen.

Enjoy!
